# The absolutely-in-progress ultimate **Arbitrary Scoring System** for *minecraftbingo.com* goals

## Vision
The difficulty interface will likely remain, although now each goal will be assigned a point value based on how hard it is to achieve or how long it takes. The following table showcases the values currently set within `generator_v4.js` and a very roughly estimated time for each difficulty. Any goal that was in a given difficulty does not have to stay within these constraints, as a lot of them did not fit their class. The table simply dictates where you can expect to see the goals based on how many points they receive.

Currently the values are quite widespread to allow for more overlap between difficulties, but this can certainly be changed to strenghten their identity. The generation however ensures that the difficulty is within certain limits—more on that in the [Generation](#generation) section.
| Difficulty    | Goal minimum  | Goal maximum  | Est. Line time    | Est. Blackout time
| ---			| ---			| ---			| ---				| ---
| Very Easy		| 1				| 4				| ~10 minutes		| ~1 hours
| Easy			| 4				| 12			| ~30 minutes		| ~3 hours
| Medium		| 9				| 22			| ~1 hour			| ~6 hours
| Hard			| 16			| 32			| ~3.5 hours		| ~20 hours
| Very Hard		| 25			| →				| ???				| An entire server's lifespan.

### Generation
The sheet is generated by following these steps:
- Set values based on the chosen difficulty (min/max for each goal & min/max for each line);
- Attempt to generate goals for each square using a backtracking algorithm.
- Check whether the minimum and maximum per line are being obeyed.

Note: The algorithm can also attempt to generate more unique values for a higher spread in difficulty across the board, although for the moment it is disabled. It can be experimented with further once the point values are assigned.

The current version for this is `dev`, using  `generator_v4.js` for generation and `goals_v5.js` for the goals. The former contains the logic for generation as well as the `squareMin`, `squareMax`, `lineMin`, `lineMax` values for each difficulty, as well as the `UNIQUE_VALS` constant which can be assigned a value up to 3 for more unique sheets. The latter is a copy of the previous goals sheet, removing the difficulty arrays and instead adding the `difficulty` property to each goal, starting at `-1` (= unassigned). The sheets will fail to generate if not enough goals are given point values. Check the console for details on what's happening with a sheet. If you believe there is an error, contact `waterarko` on Discord.

# The very malleable points definition
Each goal will have a point value assigned to it. Parts will be very arbitrary, some are attempted to be described more closely in the following sections. If you're not sure how to value a given goal, you can try to keep within the specification provided in the table, although it is not a hard rule. 

Note: The points have been doubled from their original values, so there is a bit more wiggle room now. Feel free to deviate ever so slightly in certain spots.

The total value of a goal will consist of an arbitrary point value + the points added by necessary *biomes*, *resources*, *constraints* and *time* the player will have to visit/collect/abide. The general point evaluation with *examples* is provided below:

Combat = **2** pts

## BIOMES/STRUCTURES
These are the base points for finding them, added to the value of goals within them.
- Ocean, Village = **4** pts
- Taiga, Ruined Portal = **8** pts
- Desert = **9** pts
- Jungle = **10** pts
- Swamp = **11** pts
- Pillagers / Outpost = **12** pts
- Mooshrooms = **40** pts

## ITEMS 
Could scale by quarters of a stack (~ roughly 2+ patches of ores), so every `16` pieces (starting from 1) the point value would be added. Very subject to change however.

- Basic items *(Wood, Cobblestone)* = **1** pts
- Nonbasic items *(Stone, Paper, Flint)* = **2** pts
- Nonbasic resources *(Iron, Gold)* = **4–5** pts
- Rare resources *(Redstone, Lapis)* = **6** pts
- Mythic/Legendary resources *(Diamond)* = **10** pts

## NEVER GOALS 
Never…
- Pick up CrafTables = **2** pts
- Use Fishing Rod (nothing???)
- Wear Chestplates = **4** pts
- Use a Sword = **4** pts
- Use a Boat = **6** pts
- Use Coal = **6** pts
- Place Torches = **6** pts
- Use Shields = **8** pts
- Eat non-meat = **8** pts
- Eat meat = **10** pts
- Use an Axe = **10** pts
- Sleep = **12** pts
- Wear Armour = **12** pts
- Craft Sticks = **12** pts
- Use Debug = **14** pts
- Use Buckets = **14** pts
- Smelt with Furnaces = **18** pts
- Wear Armour or use Shields = **20** pts
- Kill any mob = **30** pts

## TIME GOALS 
5 minutes = **2** points (roughly)

Average duration should be taken into account for timed or chance-based events.
- Fish Treasure & Junk = **8** pts
*(Fishing Rod + body of water = **6** pts; a cast will take ~13 seconds; to catch a Treasure should take ~20 casts)*
- Tree with Bee Nest = **24** pts
*(~4.5 Bone Meal per tree; should take ~20 trees to get a Bee Nest (90 Bone Meal))*
- Scute & Phantom Membrane = **40** pts
*(~5 nights for it to happen)*
- Turtle Shell = **44** pts
*(if you can do it once, you can do it five times, at once)*
- Wither Skull = **40** pts
*(NF base is 8; should take ~40 Wither Skeletons, would take about an hour)*
- Conduit = **140** pts
*(finding a HotS = **10** pts; getting LotS3 = **16** pts; one Nautilus Shell is ~53 casts × 8)*

## NETHER 
- Nether base = **10** pts 
(find 3 Iron, lava pool + water, build, difficulty)
- Nether Fortress += **5** pts (added, for a total of **15**)
- Blaze Rod = **18** pts
### Potions:
- Fire Resistance = **14** pts (Can barter, so Nether + Gold)
- STR, Speed, Poison = **18** pts
- Heal, NightVis, Invis, Leap, Weak = **20** pts
- WaterBr, Regen, Harm, Slow = **22** pts
- Turtle Master = **62** pts